Artificial Intelligence vs. Human Intelligence

what is Artificial Intelligence ?
Artificial Intelligence is a branch of Data Science that focuses on building smart machines capable of performing a wide range of tasks that usually require human intelligence and cognition.

what is Human Intelligence ?
Human Intelligence refers to humans’ intellectual capability that allows us to think, learn from different experiences, understand complex concepts and solve probelms.

Human Intelligence is mostly influenced by the surrounding environments,Human Intelligence aims to adapt to new environments by utilizing a combination of different cognitive processes wherelse Artificial Intelligence is build machines that can mimic human behavior and perform human-like actions.

Human  Intelligence can think beyond it's capacity but AI models are specific to so task and have a defined memory space which can't be surpassed but still human computation might take long time but Artificial Intelligence gives a proper solution for a problem.

Human Intelligence is all about learning from various incidents and past experiences. It is about learning from mistakes made via a trial and error approach throughout one’s life.However, Artificial Intelligence falls behind in this respect – machines cannot think. Hence, in this case of the difference between AI vs Human brain, Human Intelligence has a much more powerful thinking capacity than Artificial Intelligence and can have great problem-solving skills depending on the crux of the situation.

What Sets Human Intelligence Apart?
1.Emotional Intelligence: Emotional intelligence is understanding, using, and managing one’s emotions. It empowers humans to work with information by virtue of how well their brains understand their inner functions it can't undersatnd the human emotion and get to a solution in a more humanly way.

2.Critical Thinking: Humans are able to skillfully analyze and assess a situation while improving the overall quality of analysis. This thinking style requires context and a certain amount of self-discipline to steer away from judgments or bias.

3.Ethical Decision-Making: Intangible human factors such as ethics help determine the laws and regulations of society. Furthermore, apart from the ethical and moral considerations shaping the business world, humans solve real-life moral dilemmas based on certain value systems.


What Sets Human Intelligence Apart?
1.Contextualized critical thinking and reasoning
2.Creating, conceptualizing, and strategic planning
3.Feeling and awareness of one’s own emotions
4.Empathetic awareness of the world
5.Physical dexterity
6.Understanding unknown environments



AI is still in its early stages of development. Training AI systems takes a long period, which is impossible to achieve without human assistance and it does require human interfearance for its intial stages.
